Joining us now is Scott Strazik, the CEO
of GE Venova, an energy technology
company. Scott, it's good to see you,
sir.
>> Thanks for having me. I appreciate it.
>> I believe you sold out through 28.
>> We're pretty full for the next two
years, but we're ready to meet this
moment. We're continuing to invest in
more manufacturing capability in all of
our factories in the US. And as there's
more plants ready with pedestals that
need the gas turbines, we'll deliver
them.
>> Okay, put some oxygen into that story.
Let's talk about this. How quickly has
demand just absolutely exploded over the
last few years?
>> Yeah. in gas. When you think about
coming into 2025, we had 46 gawatts on
contract of future deliveries. We're
ending the year with about 80 gawatts.
So, we almost doubled our backlog over
the course of 12 months. We expect that
to grow substantially in the next 12
months. So, this is a time when the
world is very clearly seeing that gas is
really a force multiplier that's going
to enable a lot of economic growth, but
also a lot of their power generation
sources that'll be built above and
beyond gas power. It seems like all
energy sources are not equal in this
current environment, at least not
politically. On one hand, gas, yes,
maybe even nuclear, we are seeing some
more enthusiasm around that. Wind, no
way. There seems to be a real sense that
offshore wind turbines are persona non
grata right now. Is that your sense as
well? Is that kind of how you're
arranging your uh your portfolio?
>> Well, there's no question that our order
book for wind is much softer than
everything else in the portfolio and
it's a complicated policy environment.
At the end of the day, we talk about
applying the right technologies where
the right resources exist. Where there's
good wind and a lot of land, we should
build wind farms in smart ways that can
make economic sense. But that is the
softest business that we have right now.
To your point, nuclear is gaining a lot
of momentum. We're having more
excitement and commercial discussions on
our 300 megawatt small modular reactor
than ever in the past, including in
Europe. They're seeing the build that's
starting to happen in North America, and
I would expect for that to follow here.
So probably in no administration is all
technology sources treated equally. I
wouldn't say that all technologies were
treated equally during the Biden
administration either. So you have to
kind of take that step back and then
just with every administration
>> serve them and that's what we're doing.
>> How has your client mix changed? Because
traditionally it's been utilities more
than anything. You bet. Uh and
increasingly as John was mentioning in
the intro, it really is directly the AI
companies and the hyperscalers
themselves. How much has that changed
the composition of your clients in the
business?
>> Drastically. In 2024, our order book had
very little negligible hyperscaler
orders. In 2025, it was about 10% of our
order book. In 2026, it very well may be
25%.
Book. So, the growth is real. The
reality is these are good companies take
what puts their business model at risk
and gains control over that. The reality
is these companies need the electrons
along with the data in the chip and
they're securing a lot of the long lead
equipment they need to ensure that the
electrons will be there when they need
them.
>> Scott, I'm glad you mentioned the Biden
administration because they did choose
winners and losers in the energy space
as well. We saw subsidies for EVs that
we don't have anymore and this
administration squarely focus on oil.
The president wants $50 a barrel. How do
you plan for the long term if we have
elections and we have another one in
2028? The good news is that uh the world
is going to need a lot more electrons
for a really long time and in the end
over the long term they're going to need
a diverse set of technologies. So we
continue to invest in all these
technologies.
>> Nuclear though what's so interesting is
that I have heard optimism Democrats and
Republicans about nuclear but they
really haven't been able to sell it yet
to the public.
>> How is that going?
>> Well I think we're on the mantle of kind
of making progress there. I think that
will we'll make progress in 2026. I
think as people start to see it shift
from talking about it to building it, I
think sentiment's going to shift in a
very material way.
>> Can that happen before say a midterm
election?
>> Well, I don't know if I'm that's not my
role to figure out, you know, what
really moves the needle with elections.
I'm just building power plants and
serving the world with incremental
electrons right now. But that we can do
and we're going to get a lot more stuff
in construction quickly that uh I think
is motivating for everybody involved.
>> That's the right answer. And I'm sure
PR's happy with that. I just want to cut
in because we're getting an update about
the president's schedule and a bit of a
sneak peek about what we might hear from
the president in his address later on
this afternoon. So according to a
administration official, the president's
speech later could touch on Venezuela
and Greenland. Also, the president has
about five bilats with European leaders
in Davos, Switzerland at the World
Economic Forum over the next few days or
so. So that's a pretty packed schedule
for the president.
>> Pretty packed schedule. I'm really not
surprised he's going to talk about
Greenland because that has been the
topic dour here at Davos and Venezuela.
Can you imagine? It was just two and a
half weeks ago that the United States
went into Caracus and captured Nicholas
Maduro. Who are those five bilateral
meetings with though that is going to be
key because for the Europeans, what is
going on with Greenland and this
potential tariff threat on top of it has
been existential for them and they can't
see through doing anything else in terms
of deals with the United States because
of it. Mark Carney yesterday, you
brought him up. He said, "Middle
countries, if you're not at the table,
prepare to be eaten. You're on the
menu." Hey Scott, I'm not going to ask
you about what's on the menu or
Greenland, but I will ask you this. The
world feels like, particularly sitting
here, like it's becoming more polarized
for companies that have international
ambitions. Does that get a little bit
more complex, a little bit more
difficult?
>> Well, I think we need to build a more
resilient business model. And to build a
more resilient business model, you need
to invest in local supply chains to
serve local markets. And we're
definitely having to do that. But at the
end of the day, the demand is very
healthy and our relationships are very
strong. And we're very confident
investing into these markets, but we do
have to assume a more polarized world.
And because of that, more local
manufacturing capability to serve local
markets
>> and it becomes more competitive,
especially with other countries also
trying to build out their power grids.
And I just wonder how you toggle between
the expense of the inputs that's going
up, the incredible demand by
hyperscalers that have endless cash, and
the average consumer that funds the
utilities that doesn't. How do you face
that off and limit costs in a in a in a
conscious way?
>> I would actually say over the medium to
long term, the fact that those
complexities exist with all of that
growth, this is our moment to ultimately
create more cost competitive products
because we have more volume. We can
invest in our business and our factories
in different ways to automate that in
the end will bring cost down. So in the
early stages of a growth cycle, we're
having to make investments in our
factories. medium-term, we're gonna
we're gonna win this battle, including
the affordability challenge.
>> There's a question, and just to build on
the idea that John was raising about how
the world's becoming more complicated,
>> does it raise an issue for you as a
US-based company that people maybe are a
little more skeptical of buying from you
if they're from another country and
there are these tits going on between
the leaders? Is that something that
comes up? We're a very proud US company
that's committed to serving our
international customers and I think they
understand that and they see that in our
actions every day and the investments
that we make every day and today no we
have not experienced that in the end
markets it doesn't mean that every day
we don't wake up and know we need to
earn it we need to earn it every day in
the US too right and that's exactly what
we intend to